This is very capable, dynamic personality. How
did he treat his men? Well, there's some people in
Texas that thought he didn't treat us very well.
That was at the Rapido River. And that's on up the
way, you know, to Salerno. Because they thought
that his order across the Rapido River was an
ill-conceived plan. Of course, he was the Army
commander. There's a Corps commander between
him. And how much the Corps commander is
responsible for, it's nothing. But it's easy when
he was unsuccessful to say it wasn't a very good
plan. MacArthur's plan, going an inch on it,
wasn't a very good plan either. But he was highly
successful. So he becomes a brilliant
individual.
And I'd say Clark was brilliant. popular with the
troops. Of course, it's long distance from an Army
commander and a troop. They'll only see who's out
and landed in that plane, and they say, well,
that's General Clark, or if he's out in the
formation. Like where I got to keep in the Silver
Storm, me, the entire division was in formation.
We were out of the lines. But they were way back, and
we all marched up, you know, lined up in front.
But as we went up the Rapido River,
What made that so questionable was that
it wasn't a surprise night attack, because they
had already been probing along the way. And
instead of making a frontal attack across the
river in the valley, we would do the way I would
teach it. You would say it's best to take the high
ground. and then come back behind rather than
trying to frontally attack, assault, fortified
positions. But now why did he do it? Because we had
the first armored division in Italy. And people
said, well, why do you have an armored division in
the mountains of Italy? Well, somebody's got to
answer that question. They say, well, there's
some broad valleys in Italy that you can let armor
go right on up there and overrun, get on up to Rome to
get this thing over with. So they weren't looking
for high ground to penetrate. They were looking
for level ground to utilize the armor. So that was
the reason why we attacked down there where we did.
It had heavy casualties. And it was ordered to
attack again. This is daytime now. Actually, it
was unsuccessful on the first time. They attacked
again. They had even more heavy casualties. Then
they ordered to attack the third time. And I said,
we just don't have the people. We've lost leaders,
and we've got wounded hanging on the wire on the
other side, calling for help, you know, many. So I
decided not to attack. Well, there was so many
Texans in the 36th Division, you know, they
immediately went after Clark's scout. And they
got politics involved with it here. And it cost
him. He never did. He wasn't selected as chief of
staff. or the Army, which he thought he was going to
be because of that Rapido River. I think it's a
little unfair to Clark as a Corps commander,
maybe,
but it was unfortunate. And the thing about the
36th, that was the second, see, first for the
battalion. The rest of the division didn't suffer
so much in here. in Salerno, but here you had the
division. It really took a beating on that. Would
you say that at Rapido there was almost a mutiny
from the American troops? Well, they said they
weren't going to attack a third time. No, the
leaders said that. So the leaders said that we just
don't have, in general, we just don't have the
troops to continue this. That's right. So that
leader was relieved. Oh, was he? Yeah. That's
Colonel Martin, the one that welcomed me on the
train with open arms. But wasn't he just telling
the truth? Yeah, but then they tried to
investigate it and said that
lack of leadership because of the negative
attitude You know, if you start sympathizing with
the troops and telling how bad it is, and you're one
who should know, they'll say, boy, that's right.
But if you say, you may say, well, that's not being
truthful. You may say, well, things are not as bad
as you think they are.
Because it's just like, I often think, back there
was a baseball umpire I can't call his name now.
He's written a lot of books, too. And he says, his
picture's through this ball, you know. And one
says it's the ball, and the other says it's a
strike, you know, depending on which team he's
supporting. And he says, there ain't nothing till
I call it. And that's right. It's a missile through
the air until he puts a name, nomenclature on it.
And it's only a stripe because he said so or not. And
they said, well, if you don't believe you're out,
he said, read the morning's paper and you'll find
out the statistics of the game that you're out. In
many situations, particularly in combat, it can
be worse than you think it is. It can not be near as
bad. But you tend to perceive it in different ways,
you know. Now, the role of a leader is to keep a cool
head, and you'll find that you're not near as bad as
you think it is, or you perceive it to be, or it
appears to be. And I think that's the difference
between a successful and an unsuccessful. Now,
we'll go through this whole entire narrative, but
of course you're not going through a whole World
War II. But we've actually had leaders. I had one to
me, the finest officer that I think that... And
this was another battle after Rapido, which I was
gnawed on in this next one coming up at Monte
Cassino.
I was a... Why don't you just spread that out? Well,
after Rapido... Oh, by the way, the same time we
attacked Rapido to get the Army Division across,
The 24th Division attacked the high ground above
Cassino, above Monte Cassino, and they were
successful. So, but they didn't have any troops
now to exploit that because they were attacked
down below and up there, and they only had the two
divisions, couldn't get these others. If there
had been a feint down here, and then you put the
whole thing through, you know, in the back, and
then you go on back behind, And then you could
attack and it was uncovered. In fact, you'd have
them pinned. They'd have to pull back. Now it's
true that you go back and that's hindsight.
So 24th was successful, but nothing to do to
exploit. They didn't have sufficient forces then
to continue on because they got down weak. They'd
get chewed up also. But we could have taken Cassina
from the rear at the beginning. But then we really
had heavy carriers. They had heavy carriers. Now
you've got two divisions decimated. The third has
been in combat. They're just out trying to get
refitted. And that's the core right there of the
three divisions. So after this one, pulled out of
the line, got replacement, trained, and
then
we took what we had left. of your men at Rapido.
Yeah. And we replaced the 24th Division up on the
mountain.
I had the battalion in. I was a major of what was left
of the battalion.
By the way, we had a truce with the Germans. I told
you earlier how the Germans cooperated on
relieving the poor, tired Americans and those
guards to get their people back and say, if you can
do that while we're fighting each other. At the
Rapido, we had a truce. We asked for it. Chaplain
went down, got permission from the division,
division headquarters. So we went down with the
truce. I went down there with them. And the Germans
permitted us to get the wounded off of the wire
across the river Okay, they bring him back, yeah.
And it was a one-hour truce. And it was arranged by
map on grid square. You know, at this time there
would be no gunfire whatsoever on the grid square.
And they abided by it, and we abided by it. So you
went down and picked your soldiers out? Yeah. You
sent the medics in? Yeah. I personally didn't go. I
was on the river. Were they pretty beat up? Oh, the
men had wounds? Yeah, oh, some had terrible
wounds. Others had life wounds. Some of them were
hanging in the wire. That's what was difficult. So
they had buckets. The fortifications were
beautiful. The river's not very large, wide. It
was deep because it's rapid at that time of the
year. But the Germans had a sunken road hundreds of
years behind, parallel to the river. The Germans
had a tunnel from the sunken road into the, not
underwater, but to the bank. And they put their
machine guns all the way down the river. And then
they had them the other way, coming this way,
interlaced, you know, with fire. So the poorer
devils who were attacking, you aren't attacking
the gun, it's killing you at all. You don't even see
it, all you know, you're getting hit. And then they
had barbed wire and mines, in other words, it was
fortified, to rip up the fence. And this is what, we
got across, we got across with a, bridges, foot
bridges. So you could get across. You know, a lot of
people got wounded trying to get the bridge
installed and also cross it. But that's the reason
why there were people there on the wire. They
couldn't go far and they couldn't go back. And the
Germans weren't going to get out of their
fortification to get them out. So they agreed to
it. How did you even contact them? They did it by
radio.
And a German... came and talked to me in
well-dressed. He came to talk to you? Yeah, in
English. He said, and he was telling the truth, he
said, you lads certainly don't conduct river
crossings like I was taught at Leavenworth.
That's what he said to you? Yeah, he and our
commanding staff called him Leavenworth. Here he
was all clean and, you know, perky little cap on
and... standing there with clean-shined boots
and flipping his swagger stick. And what rank was
he? I don't remember. I think he was a captain or
maybe a major. I think he wasn't hiring the Lord.
And so you got a hold of these people on the radio,
and then you said, well, meet you, let's talk about
this. Yeah, I personally didn't have anything to
do with the troop except to participate in it,
being down there on the river. I didn't talk. I
don't know how the chaplain, how he arranged it,
but some way that they had it with the Germans. And
there I was. But that's what the German said to you?
Huh? But that's what the German said to you when he
came over to discuss his troops? Yeah. He, too, was
just observing like I was, you know. Of course, he
wanted to come on our side because he wanted to get a
reconnaissance to see whether we had anything,
which we didn't have. Mm-hmm. Fortifications or
troops all dug in. Well, when he said that about
Leavenworth, what'd you say? I just shook my head.
That wasn't funny to me. And he was right. I would
never conduct a river crossing that way.
Surprise, yes. If you really go slip up there and
all, they want you to throw this across without
them manning their guns. They already probed it
with reconnaissance. They knew what it was. So
what they were trying to do, we were trying to do, is
just overwhelm them, you know, with bodies.
That's pretty hard to do with machine guns firing
at you, mortars and artillery. In fact, many of our
boats were pneumatic, of course, shrapnel or
fragments deflated, big ripping, gacking holes
in them. And that's before we ever tried to do it. So
you can see how well anybody said, okay, they're
going to try to have it. Boat parking, wherever it
is. Tell me a little bit more about this scene. Did
the other Germans that they sent over during this
truce, did they speak English too? I don't know.
See, most of the action was on the other side. I
didn't go on the other side. I stayed on our side. I
went on the other side during the attack and came
back. But what happened during the truce is that
they sent this German officer over for one hour to
your headquarters, basically? No. Well, how did
you meet this one? I'm a little confused. Okay, the
chaplain arranged for this truce. I know I talk
about this, and I just say it. You say, well, if you
can do this, why in the hell are we fighting each
other, see? You know, if it's this simple, let
somebody else do it. The chaplain arranged for it.
And the second truce, which I'll get to later, I
have a paper on that, like, find it somewhere. It
was written up by the Inspector General who was
involved in the second one. I went down to Water's
Edge, actually arranged for it. They came down to
the channels, headquartered it, say a truce had
been arranged and gave the grid square for this
particular time. So my only job down there was to go
down there and just observe on my own, rather than
sleeping or trying to get ready to go in a few hours.
The German had no responsibility at all either. He
just came as a sightseer also. But he couldn't
resist seeing me on the other side and with the
ponton type of bridge that we had there till across
the river. He came on over there on this side. But we
probably should have done this, captured him when
he got over there, even during the truce with him
being so cocky. But he was right. And that's about
all the conversation, because I wasn't going to
talk with him. Why not? I was too beaten up.
The next truce, I did a lot of talking. What were
your feelings toward when, I mean, were the
people, did they have a lot of hatred for the enemy,
or were they indifferent during this truce, or did
they think it was a humane thing to have this truce?
What did the people feel like? What did your
soldiers and you feel like? Well, I guess I think it
was humane, because we're the ones who asked for it
and benefited from it. I guess that You had a few
troops around. What do you think about this? They
said, well, I think it's good to get these wounded
back and bodies back because they're one of us.
Whether they think this is the proper way to fight a
war or not, I don't know. I don't think probably an
infantry officer would have even thought about
asking for a troop. Certainly we don't have any
manuals and on certain conditions this is what you
do. You contact the enemy and ask for truce. That's
almost medieval. Do you remember what the
chaplain's name was? But he instigated this
truce. Yeah.
Along with the Red Cross flag, I mean, they went
down. What a difference between fighting in
Europe and fighting in the Orient. Yeah. For the
Japanese. But anyway. The Germans, to give
another one, I was talking about Denholm earlier.
Denholm got captured in North Africa. And they
took him and inventoried his money, his
pocketbook, and put it in an envelope. Let him keep
his watch. And treated him just like... The
president of war is supposed to be treated. He'd
treat him as an officer and a gentleman, fed him
well. He later escaped and later on got wounded.
But that's the type of standard that the German
Army had because they were very professional,
especially that North Africa Corps. Not many
draftees at that time because, see, that was the
elite unit that they had. But then what we had left,
we went back on up and relieved the 24th. And I was in
charge in the battalion. I had about less than 200
men left. Out of how many? And now we have a new
commanding officer. This is named Paul D. Adams,
who later on got to be a four-star gentleman. But
out of the battalion, I guess we had, at that time,
probably 650 or 700. So you lost. Out of 700, you
only had 200 left? Yeah. What a casualty rate.
Yeah, you can look at the journals and see it each
month. You know, we listed the people that were
killed. Was morale decreasing because of this
tremendous casualty rate? Yeah, but war...
Infantry particularly, you got... I'm talking
about now like in Italy or like in the Far East that
they had in those campaigns there, particularly
in the islands where Peter went all the time. He got
rocked.
It almost becomes
a case of survival. And you're mad at anybody
that's making your life so miserable. I don't mean
you're mad at the president. I don't care who it is
that cross there that's causing you all of this
sort of thing. And you, I don't know why you'd call
it hatred, but it's just a, if I'm going to be this
miserable and I'm going to have all these
casualties, well, I'm going to see that you have it
as bad as we are, or worse, hopefully. Now, France
and Germany, it was a different war, you thought.
Yeah. I'm talking about now where you, gosh, I got
trench foot. in Italy, up in the mountains in the
cold, rain season. And of course it says, change
your socks, you don't keep them. We didn't have any
socks. We changed, everything was wet. So the time
we got out, the peat was kind of shriveled up. And
then we took a hot shower. And boy, they get about
twice the size. And it was all swollen up. You can't
walk. And it takes a long time to get over it. And
that's what happened later on. Now we're up above
Cassino, above and behind at Monaco Center.
Just thinned up there. We have emplacements,
machine guns. So the Germans mounted a massive
attack. Artillery and mortars, they slammed to us
for about an hour. Well, we dug in and we sustained
the attack pretty well. Then they came. We put down
all our artillery and machine guns on them. But
what really killed them was that their artillery
wasn't clearing the mask of the hill. It wasn't
coming up and coming down. It was slamming into
their own troops. Their own artillery was
slamming into their own troops? Yes. Wow. So
finally got all quiet, see. And then daylight
finally came. And I got out there and I started
looking, and we had German bodies all over the
place. Wounded Germans.
They could easily overrun us if it hadn't been for
that, because once again, they had the truth. But
this is an all-mountain, you know. So it's not a
case of as you climb, you get all up there, and then
you get a red detect. And they didn't realize it
because they were firing at night. Yeah. So, lo and
behold, later that day, the Germans had asked for
truth.
Now, this is a different unit, you know, and
everything about it is old. We were in better shape
then. We had very few cavemen. So we were all dug in,
and they never got to the hand-in-hand combat. So
this was arranged. And this one, because I got to
say, I got a piece of paper somewhere. The
inspector general wrote up this one. So he was up
there. So it must have been a division before they
came up. So the Germans came up
to pick up their dead.
So here comes a German. officer up to who would say
he spoke a little broken and different from down
there, that this guy here looked more combat like
he did. And he spoke English, and so I told him that
I thought that the German artillery was better
trained to
fall short and kill their own troops. Don't they
teach them better than that in the artillery
school? What did he have to say to that? He said, I'm
afraid you're right. That's what he said? I'm
afraid you're right? They realized that all over
that they wanted to give us credit, which, of
course, is all right. That's good for your morale,
too, if you don't think your own people are. But
that's where the heavy caves were, right down just
short. Before they ever got into our line of fire,
before they came up, see? And they asked for an
extension on that because they had a heck of a time,
you know, getting those people. In other words,
they needed more than an hour? Yeah, and it was
granted. But once again, it was a peculiar
situation. And you could hear all the firing going
on all around, you see. It's just quiet around that
Monte Cassino area. So that's my two experiences
on truces during the war.
Do you remember what rank this German officer was?
But he looked pretty combat. He wasn't spit and
polish. Was he arrogant like the first one? No.
You don't find many arrogant infantry officers in
combat. Especially if they're tired. Like those
cartoons, Willie and Joe. That cartoon all you can
get. How do you know if he's a fresh troop if you
don't wake him up and ask him? You know, there's two
old guys leading on his rifle. That's a fresh
troop. Well,
anyway, we finally went on up to Anzio. Now, I
mention this because
this time, the Corps commander, and Clark's still
Army commander, takes a recommendation of
General Walker, the commanding general of the
36th. And it turned out what should have been
another bloodbath, like Rapido, turned out to be
brilliant.
Anzio, of course, is down in a broad plain that goes
along the coast all the way to Rome, but still a lot
of mountainous territory around it. Well, the
plain doesn't go all the way to Rome. There's
another group of mountains before you get to Rome.
Anyway, there's some plain. So we're in the
beachhead in the plane. And because we're under
observation all the time, there was a perpetual
smoke stream all around the edge of the perimeter.
So the Germans up in the high ground couldn't
observe. And they didn't have air superiority, so
they couldn't see very much by plane. Most of their
aircraft operated at night. And the left receives
astride the main artery that comes down through
that. So the plan was 36th Division to attack the
left wing
and the flaps a little bit below. Once again, this
is a frontal attack on a fortified position. At
least they're well dug in. So General Walker this
time, he went to the corps commander and said, I
have a plan I'd like to submit. And he said, all
right, what is it? So he told his corps commander,
he said, well, you know, I can't prove this. We'll
have to go to General Clark and present this
because this is counter to what's already been
planned. So they went up to General Clark and they
briefed him. And he says, okay, we'll try it. What
General Walker had done, he had contacted the
Italians around there. And he had been talking
with this engineer about the desirability of
finding some way over that mountain other than
going head on against the lecture. And the Italian
said, yes. I know a route that goes over the
mountain. It's just a trail. Well, the engineer
said, well, can it be widened, you say? He said,
well, yes. How you going to widen it? He said, we'll
take a bulldozer. We'll get where we can get jeeps
and trucks over that area. So they made a
reconnaissance. And since the Germans were down
here, and this mountain rib goes out like this,
they were able to get up there. And they made a
reconnaissance. And they didn't want to go all the
way over, because they'd give away the plane. And
the engineer said, sure, he can do that. That's
what they sold General Clark on. So we made what we
call a Chinese attack, where you pull out all the
stuff, but really nobody moves anymore. You have
the tanks firing, and even anti-aircraft would be
firing. We did that. And the Germans bought it.
They thought, well, yeah. They expected, of
course, you're going to break out of that
beachhead and try to sooner or later would be
great. And hit them frontal. But what you're
really doing is... Planking them. Yeah, you're
taking the flank. Yeah. Up and over the hill. Yeah.
And they weren't concerned about that because
only patrols could go over, and they had troops in
the rear to take care of patrols. Bicycle troops,
by the way. Yeah. And they got surprised because
they came to the rescue, you know, to knock out this
patrol. And lo and behold, they found out they had a
two battalion frontal attack against them in the
rear. So while that was all going around, our troop
pulled out and went on around to the rear, got to
this place. And of course, the infantry went on up
ahead, which my battalion was a
I wasn't the battalion commander in this
particular one, but the battalion I was in was
leading the attack. Went on over and got on down.
And sure enough, it was just about daylight. You
didn't see any Germans anywhere around. So we went
on down. In the meantime, the engineers using
bulldozers was widening and scraping and
knocking down trees unnecessarily, getting
rocks out of the way to where The first the jeep to
get over, and then they kept working and improving
it to where a larger truck could. And by 10 o'clock
the next morning, we had not only the infantry down
there, but also the supporting weapons, like
mortars.
So then we moved on out to cut the road behind
Belletri and start Barone. That was the objective
this time. So we got the entire division, crossed
that mountain, down behind the Germans. Now the
Germans could only pull out, and they couldn't
pull back straight. They had to go not quite
parallel with the front line, but behind the
others. And that, since it's a coordinated
attack, then they all cut loose, see? Because
after you want to do that, you weaken them, then
these others are getting out of position. It's a
British unit. So the Germans then are... Not quite
surrounded, but about three quarters. Yeah. So
they're trying to get out toward Rome, but they
can't go back on the main road because it's cut. So
they're having to go across, sort of trooping the
line in the rear. And the British unit attack and
others is a coordinated attack and is very
successful and took a lot of prisoners. The reason
about the bicycle, when we got there, who wasn't
coming in, you know, to counterattack with a
company on bicycle?
And I went to Rome, and then later on, of course, we
went up to pull it out of the line at Pembino. Well,
before we get on that, let's talk for a minute about
the British troops. You worked right with the
British troops, and the British general in charge
was Alexander at this time. Did you ever have an
opportunity to see Alexander? Yeah. I was too low
level. I didn't chat with him. He talked to us. How
did he strike you? He came in North Africa. He came
before we went into Italy. And we didn't have any
idea what was going to happen. We didn't know that
we had anything to do with the British troops. We
didn't see anything like that. And he kind of let
the cat out of the bag and he welcomed us to his
command. And, of course, we all looked at each
other in amazement. What is he talking about? But
he's a real fine. He was basically the Supreme
Commander of all the troops. So he was over Clark.
Now, how did you get? You thought that he was a real
fine officer, but you didn't really get an
opportunity to talk to him. No, I know more about
him on a bread than my business. That's the only
time I ever saw him. OK, now. Of course, during this
time, the British troops were also in the
campaign. Did you have any opportunity to work
with the British? Yeah, in Italy we were—
Coordinating efforts with them? And Missoula and
also the Gurkhas. Of course, they were British
troops, Commonwealth troops, and the Gurkhas.
And how were they? Would you make a comment on the
quality of these other British troops? Oh, fine.
had the disadvantage because it galled them
because many of their lorries as they called it
didn't have four-wheel drive so it all through
italy and elsewhere you know you had a lot of
bypasses and taking an american vehicle with
winches on it the winch on the british and even then
a typical british They rationalize it, saying,
well, you bloody Americans, you don't need
four-wheel drive except at certain times. And so
it's inefficient. We sell them every four-wheel
drive, so why have it on all your vehicles? So we
say, so we wouldn't have to be wedging you through
this pipeline. You're holding up our troops.
Is there a pretty good department? And the New
Zealand troops are really outstanding, too.
Well-trained. They
couldn't understand why they took them away from
New Zealand and Australia and Australia. And then
we turn around and send American units in New
Zealand and Australia, particularly Australia,
because they get letters from home, you know,
about all of their girlfriends and sisters and so
forth that's going with these Yankees. All the
young men in their country's gone. So the same
thing in Great Britain, of course. We had that big
contingent waiting for the invasion. Of course,
the British had all their troops around the world.
But there was never any, as far as you can remember,
there was no animosity between the Americans and
the British Commonwealth? Not to my knowledge.
Just good cooperation.
I'll tell you a story that really has nothing to do
with this. like you can even cut the machine off,
you know, about British-American relationship.
You know, when we were preparing for the invasion,
I wasn't in Great Britain at that time, in England,
but we had all these troops, and we had horses, and
in one area there, they had a series of messes,
since you had officers billeted all around, you
know, in different buildings, but they had, I
guess it was in Hyde Park, that big park, where they
had all these messes lined up like this. And this
officer, and Eisenhower especially emphasized
he wanted a good relationship with our allies,
great British since we're in their country, we're
their guests. But he doesn't want our troops to go
British, you know, to get speaking their
language, all that stuff. But be yourself. But be,
make sure you're friendly. And this officer right
now, I can't, think his name, Mimi could help me
because his son was with us up at West Point.
He had been drinking in the middle of the day, so he
was in this mess. And he got in an argument with a
British officer about some subject like I just
told you about, you know, four-wheel drive.
Anyway, something in comparison to the military.
And he was loud and They got in an argument, and
finally the friend that was with him, American
officer, got him out of the Army and laid him out.
And said, you should not have done that. My God, a
gentleman out there would go hear about this, and
you would be on the first ship pulling. You
disgraced yourself and your nation by being so
loud, boisterous, uncouth. And he said, you were
right. i'm going back and apologize oh no let's
don't do that he says i insist i you're right so he
went into the mess and this time of course it's all
buzzing you know they're eating like that he
called for attention though let me have your
attention it took quite a while to get them calm
quiet and down so he says i want you to know that i
made an ass out of myself i've disgraced my nation,
and I apologize, and I hope you will accept my
apology. And he was just so quiet and old, looking
at him like, what in the hell is going on? He had gone
into the wrong mess. He'd gone into another
mess. He said, that really happened. Of course, I
never heard about this. Obviously, that was the
talk of the clubs. I bet you the British got in
charge of that.
When you went up into Rome, what were the
conditions in that city like? Well, it was good
because Rome had been an open city. There wasn't
any damage. And the bridges were all intact
because they're beautiful bridges, works of art.
And, of course, Rome was really welcome. You could
barely get the vehicles through the street.
Because, I say, America was popular, at least
then, all through Italy.
In fact, to go back, In Italy, you remember here
recently they had those terrible earthquakes
where it found one of those villages I had been in
and entertained it. When those people got
captured between the Salerno and Colorado River,
two officers
that was captured, the Germans loaded them on a
train that was heading north. And of course, they
threatened them. If anybody tries to escape,
we'll shoot all of them. But they saw an
opportunity during the night to jump off the train
while it was moving. Of course, it wasn't going
very fast. And they escaped. They went up the
mountain to this village in the Italian. And
they're really poor people. They're villages
because they work the vineyards and everything.
They live together, but they really have nothing.
They make their own wine, and they have chicken
with eggs. And you know that they give most of their
eggs and chickens to the Catholic Church, to the
Padres, who really live very nicely.
So they took these two officers and hid them. They
put them in a potato bin off of the . And of course,
the German patrol came around looking for them and
threatened to kill all Italians. And they said, we
don't know anybody in America. And they didn't
find them. And then they would send up food for them
to eat and water. And they stayed hidden for
several days. And about, I guess, two weeks later,
we moved on up. And then they could rejoin the crew.
Well, later on, I had never been there. Later on,
Quarles, that's his name. He's a Colonel Reserve
officer. He's a very prominent lawyer in Florida,
Miami. The other officer was later killed.
He said, since we're out of the line, we've got a few
days, would you like to go with me back up to the
village for these people who helped me? Had me hit
and all this time. So I said, yeah. So we got some
things from the kitchen that they could spare. We
got chocolate candies, things that other people
had that they could let us out. And he would load it
up the Jeep with all that sort of stuff. And went up
into that mountain. Very difficult to get even in
the Jeep because it goes way up. Most people just
walk. And when they saw him, they all turned up. Oh,
and they're singing and dancing and they brought
out their wine and he handed that out to them and
they cried and they embraced him. But the sad part
of the story is that was the village that was one of
the villages that they had all those caves. Just
put way up in the mountain. And the buildings, oh
gosh, they're several hundred years old. In fact,
sometimes it's old you think that they had been
ravaged by gunfire or something, you know,
because some were cracking and falling off.
During this time, there was a lot of discussion
between Roosevelt, Churchill, and American and
British military commanders about not invading
southern France, but invading through Austria
and through the Alps and the so-called soft
underbelly of Europe, which of course George
Marshall thought was absolutely out of the
question. Was any of this discussed down on the
lines? Never. When did you hear about this? Later?
Too low rank later on. Too low. I'm not even sure
that some of the very senior people knew about that
discussion.
I didn't know until after the war that
we made this landing in Africa or reinforced it. as
evidence that we were doing something.
But as you say, Churchill said, all that's wasted
evidence because the future, post-war, will be
most important. Because he saw the danger of
communism, or USSR, I should say. He hadn't even
gotten away from communism himself. That that
would be the threat.
Was he looking for a way to defeat Hitler, and at the
same time, profit by, to better stabilize, at
least not the world, at least the Western
position.
But I don't think all that battle in North Africa
was for naught, because it gave us a first victory
for the Allies.
And it turns out now that it is. But
for a while it looked like he was really on the
track. Of course, Tito didn't break away, but he
came almost neutral, at least because he was so
closely tied to the USSR. When did you first learn
about Operation Anvil, the invasion of southern
France, which took place in June 1944.
We were up, as I said, in Piovino,
which is getting up in the extreme north of Italy.
And we were pulled out and went all the way back to
Naples. And then, of course, we knew that we were
getting ready to go somewhere because delighted
to get out of Italy. Why? Because of the terrain and
the weather, not because of the time. You know what
it is to live like an animal for all winter, living
in a home and eating. I got where the eating those K
rations they call them. I don't know whether you
remember those things. I don't know if you've seen
them. This had these canned egg and old crackers
that taste like because they had lemon crystals
and lemon crystals you couldn't mix with water in
other words it was a packaged ration that was
really unsuccessful it might have been all right
but eat it two or three days but the cheese i got to
wear that i couldn't keep anything down no i'm
kidding the food was so bad that you were vomiting
all the time you had this problem with the feet it
had come back back up now The reason we weren't
eating sea rations is because they were heavier.
See, we didn't have helicopters there. We were
supplied by mules. No kidding. And you couldn't
even supply a lot of arms. You couldn't get trucks
up to you? Oh, no. We were up on top of those
mountains. We were supplied by mules up at Monte
Cassino, up where that attack occurred. You
couldn't get vehicles. Well, you couldn't even
get them halfway. There was a village halfway up, a
small village, but they had just a winding walk
type of thing. And mules make good pack animals,
but horses, you know, horses love them. Because a
horse,
well first a mule's just smarter than a horse, more
intelligent. Whether it's innate intelligence
or what it is.